>> Speaker 1: What's your take on using
shorthand or the more clever alternatives
to coding solution versus just writing
the longer but more readable code?
>> Brian Holt: Just like I was
explaining here to Emma earlier,
I always want people to err on the side of
code that they feel is readable, right?
To me, because I've been doing this long
enough and like I write code like this.
And so I often read code like this.
This is still readable to me.
So I kind of strike the balance here
that like I still find that readable and
it's a lot shorter to type, right?
So I'm gonna do it this way.
And once you start getting into
these functional paradigms,
your brain kind of starts thinking
about problems in terms of this, right?
It's kind of a different
way of thinking about this.
This would be called
functional programming.
This would be more like procedural
programming or imperative programming.
So not that you ever have to
care about those terms, but
I always want people on my team and I want
myself to choose readable code, right?
So if you find this far
more readable than this,
then you're more imperative
to do it this way.
>> Speaker 1: What about people who
come after you or that you work with or
something, what if they
see it differently?
>> Brian Holt: Then you tell
them that they're wrong.
>> Speaker 1: [LAUGH]
>> Brian Holt: No, so
if I was working somewhere that let's say
have more engineers that did not know
how to program this way, I would probably
air on this side of doing it this way.
And in the process, try and
teach them how to do it this way.
So that hopefully we can get there, but
I don't want someone to sit there and
just like stare at my code and say, what
the hell is going on with this, right?
That's this is fun to write it this way.
But if I'm like slowing up other people,
then I'm like doing
a disservice to my team, right?
So-
>> Speaker 1: When you read JavaScript in
the wild, do you not necessarily, in your
job where people are probably programming
similarly, do you see more code written
like that or it's just all different?
>> Brian Holt: All over the place.
You'll get some people that are very, very
functional oriented that won't write code
any other way to the point
of being like ideologues and
I like I don't like dealing with them.
In fact,
they're kind of the worst like functional
programming purists are the worst.
Yeah, I'm just gonna throw that out there.
The only one that I still like is
Brian Lanstor for the front of master and
that's cuz he's just
a beautiful human being.
>> Speaker 1: [LAUGH]
>> Brian Holt: But everyone else,
they all suck.
So I like a little bit of functional
programming like here in there.
But like I'll still, if I see stuff
like this, I'm not upset by this, right?
So I'm definitely not an Island.
I've fancied myself much more of
a pragmatist like just take the approach
that solves the problem, right?
Try and fit into the code, right?
Don't try and
enter a code base and make this.
Well, this is bad and
we have to change everything.
No, slow down, sparky.
It's okay, just try and fit into
the code base, improve incrementally.
Don't try and
upend the whole thing all at once.
So to answer your question, it hugely
depends on who you're talking to.
Other questions?
Other rants you would like me to go on?
>> Speaker 1: Can I ask one more?
>> Brian Holt: Sure.
>> Speaker 1: For
the constant, right, person.
Did you have to create
that as a place to store
each iteration or
could you have done list I in
place of where it says
person in each of those?
>> Brian Holt: Works just as well.
>> Brian Holt: Honestly,
that's probably what I would do, but
I was just erring on
the side of being explicit.
So hopefully more people would get it.
Cuz normally like seeing things
like person here and there,
it's a little bit more clear.
It's like that's a person there.
What is a list I, right?
So yeah, it's all in the sake of clarity.
>> Brian Holt: In general, like if I'm
referring to something like list I over
and over and over and over again,
I would actually plug out of the topic it
did here and use person one for clarity
second to accessing a list is really
really cheap into performance
it's not free, right?
So that's a micro excuse.
It would probably in the text you
don't super large code bases, but
that's how I justified in my brain.
>> Speaker 1: What time does
performance really matter?
Is there a set size of list,
a size of structure that you're
dealing with where you start
having like really think about it?
>> Brian Holt: I'm sure there
are numbers that could be given.
I think my general stance is wait to
have a problem and then fix it, right?
Premature optimization
kills companies that,
that's a saying that I did not make up.
[LAUGH] So if you're sitting there like
wringing your hands about like how this
can be more performance and
like that in general, you're wasting time.
And it also leads to people writing
really weird and archaic code, right,
to try like in the name of performance
trying to get something to go faster.
But in general,
like JavaScript pretty fast.
Chrome is really fast.
Firefox is really fast.
In general, unless you're doing things
like operating like millions of numbers.
You generally don't have to really concern
yourself like I will optimize things
to say like 50 milliseconds or
100 milliseconds, but
I won't optimize things to say like two.
So it depends on what's going on.
We're actually gonna be looking at our
project at the end of the day that where
you're gonna have some
performance concerns, right, and
you're gonna have to
make some optimizations.
So that’s because it’s going to be
happening hundreds of times a second.
When you have code that’s that hot, that’s
what you would call something like that.
It’s a hot code pass.
Something that is run really,
really frequently.
That’s when you really wanna
concern yourself with performance.
But if it’s a cold, cold pass like it runs
like once a day who gives a shit if it
takes five minutes versus four minutes,
right?
Yeah, does that answer your question?
>> Speaker 1: Yeah.
>> Brian Holt: Cool, thanks.
Anyone else?
>> Brian Holt: Yeah.
>> Speaker 1: So in general,
when talking about maps,
is that basically just like the for
statement?
Like this one right here?
>> Brian Holt: Yeah,
I'm trying to understand that line.
They're just-
>> Speaker 1: Sure, so
let's make this a little
bit more explicit.
So they can make a little bit more sense.
>> Speaker 1: Return person.name.
Okay, so, that's a bit more explicit.
So this extremely similar to forEach,
right?
You can think it's functionally
exactly the same as forEach.
The only key difference between forEach
and map is that whatever you return
in map gets put into a new array, right,
whereas for each doesn't return anything.
So here, I'm returning person.name.
So that after this, I'm going to
be left with a list of strings or
an array of strings, right,
which is gonna be an array of names which
is ultimately what I wanted to get out
of this right before this was a list.
If you come on down this line right
here and I don't have this map on here,
engineers, it's just gonna be a list
of objects which is not what I wanted.
I wanted a list of strings.
>> Brian Holt: Okay.
>> Speaker 1: Does that
answer your question?
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, it does.
>> Speaker 1: Cool.
>> Speaker 1: I'm always like
really hesitant to teach this.
Like I said, I learned about map filter
and reduce like those kind of things,
probably about five or six years into my
career and it fundamentally changed how I
write code once I actually
kind of learn how to do it.
I think it makes a lot of these things
a lot simpler to deal with, right?
Like once you understand what this is
really doing, it's three lines of code,
right, which is pretty cool.
And it's becoming more and
more common in JavaScript as well,
which is why I think it's important
that you're exposed to it earlier.
Like if you are start writing react which
is something that I write a lot of which
is the UI library from Facebook,
you have to know about map.
It's just used everywhere in react.
So you'll be ill equipped to deal with it,
unless you know how to use it.
So anyway,
that's my internal monologue for the day.
>> Speaker 1: Okay, so
we'll comment that one out.
We'll leave this one up here and
we'll go down here.